detroit-yard(5) - generate yard api documentation via detroit
=============================================================

## DESCRIPTION

The YARD plug-in for Detroit utilizes the `yard` documentation
tool to generate API documentation for a project. It will also
generate yri documentation files.


## OPTIONS

The following options can be used in the Detroit assembly file
to define a YARD service.

  * `yardopts` - If set to true, use `.yardopts` file and ignore other settings.
     This defaults to `true` if no other settings are given and a `.yardopts`
     file exists.

  * `title` - Title of documents. Defaults to general metadata title field.

  * `output` - Where to save generated documentation. The default is `doc/`.

  * `template` - Template to use. This defaults to `ENV['YARD_TEMPLATE']`.

  * `files`/`include` - Which files to document. The default is `lib/`.

  * `exclude` - Paths to specifically exclude.

  * `ignore` - File patterns to ignore.

  * `docs` - Which project document files to include, e.g. `COPYING`.

  * `readme` - Main file. This can be a file pattern. This default is matched
     to `README{,.*}`.

  * `extra` - Additional options passed to the `rdoc` command.


## EXAMPLES

Usually `.yardopts` is used, in which case the simplest entry would be:

    yard:
      priority: 1

We set the priority lower than the default (highest is `0`) in case some other
documentation tool generates files that should be included in the YARD docs.

A more complex example might look like:

    yard:
      title: MyApp API
      readme: INTRO.rdoc
      include:
         - lib
      docs:
         - [A-Z]*.*
      ignore: 
        - '*.yml'
      output: site/api
      priority: 1

The above examples use the YAML-base assembly format. Assembly
files can also be Ruby-based. See Detroit documentation for more
details.


## RESOURCES

  * [API Documentation](http://rubydoc.info/gems/detroit-rdoc)

  * [Development Site](http://github.com/detroit/detroit-rdoc)


## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2010 Thomas Sawyer, Rubyworks

Detroit YARD is distributable in accordance with the GPL v.3 license.


## SEE ALSO

detroit(1), yard(1)
